---
layout: default
title: Saving Throws
parent: The Rules of the Game
nav_order: 2
permalink: /rules-of-the-game/saving-throws/
---

# Saving Throws

Saving throws are rolled to resist some unusual danger or chance hazard. To make a saving throw, a person rolls 1d20 and tries to get equal or higher than their saving throw target. Sometimes a save might have bonuses or penalties applied to the roll, but a natural roll of 1 on the die always fails the save, and a natural roll of 20 is always a success.

## Saving Throw Types

There are four types of saving throws. Usually it will be obvious which type is most appropriate for a threat, but the GM can decide in marginal situations.

### Physical Saves

_Physical saves_ resist exhaustion, poisons, diseases, or other bodily afflictions. A PC's Physical saving throw target is equal to 16 minus their character level and the highest of their Strength or Constitution modifiers.

### Evasion Saves

_Evasion saves_ apply when dodging explosions, avoiding traps, reacting to sudden peril, or other occasions where speed is of the essence. A PC's Evasion saving throw target is equal to 16 minus their character level and the highest of their Dexterity or Intelligence modifiers.

### Mental Saves

_Mental saves_ apply when resisting mental cyberware hacks, psychotropic influences, psychological trauma, and other mental hazards. A PC's Mental saving throw target is equal to 16 minus their character level and the highest of their Wisdom or Charisma modifiers.

### Luck Saves

_Luck saves_ are used when only blind chance can save a PC, regardless of their native abilities. A PC's Luck saving throw target is equal to 16 minus their character level, unmodified by their attributes.

## NPC Saving Throws

NPCs have a single saving throw target equal to 15 minus half their rounded-down hit dice. Thus, an NPC with 3 HD would have a saving throw target of 14+ for any particular hazard. The GM may modify this in special circumstances, but it's usually not worth tracking more closely.
