---
layout: default
title: Encumbrance
parent: The Rules of the Game
nav_order: 9
permalink: /rules-of-the-game/encumbrance/
---

# Encumbrance

While gear load is seldom as important to cyberpunk operatives as it is to dungeon-crawling adventurers, some limits on the number of guns and amount of ammo any given operator can carry are required.

Gear has encumbrance, measured in points, as exampled in the table below. The more awkward or bulky the object, the greater the encumbrance. The GM adjudicates ambiguous objects.

| Gear                                    | Encumbrance                              |
| :-------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------- |
| Portable in a small pocket              | 0 (Any reasonable number can be carried) |
| Portable in one hand                    | 1                                        |
| Requires two hands to carry or use it   | 2                                        |
| Requires a whole-body effort to haul it | 5+                                       |
| Dragging an unconscious teammate        | 12                                       |

Gear is either Stowed or Readied. Stowed gear is packed away carefully in pockets, packs, and harnesses. It's easier to carry but harder to quickly access. Using Stowed gear requires that the bearer take a Main Action to pull it out before using it. Readied gear is carried in hands, holsters, quick-access pockets, or other easily-accessible places. It can be used as part of an action without any further preparation.

A character can carry a total number of Stowed encumbrance points equal to their Strength score. They can carry a number of Readied points equal to half their Strength, rounded down. Thus, a PC with a Strength score of 11 could carry 11 points of Stowed gear and 5 points of Readied.

PCs can haul much heavier objects if necessary. If they push their limits for longer terms, they can carry an additional two Ready and four Stowed items. The first time they do this, their Move speed is cut by 30%, from 10m to 7m. The second time, it’s cut by 50%, from 10m to 5m. More weight than this can’t be practically hauled over significant distances.

## Bundled Gear

Small, regularly-shaped objects such as grenades, pharmaceuticals, rations, and firearm magazines can be wrapped into bundles for easier portability. Three such items can be tied into a bundle that only counts as one item of encumbrance. Breaking into this bundle takes an extra Main Action, however.

## Bulk Weights

Sometimes the PCs need to transport bulk amounts of goods that are measured in kilograms. When it's necessary to convert these weights into encumbrance points, a GM can just assume that twenty-five kilograms is worth about ten points of encumbrance to a PC hauling a pack out on their back.
When judging the ability of a vehicle to carry encumbrance points of cargo, it can be assumed that a car or truck can carry as much as the PCs need it to carry, within reason.

## Games Without Encumbrance

Because most cyberpunk missions involve rapid strikes and have access to vehicles, long-term tracking of weights and supplies is less important than it is in a game that involves weeks-long expeditions into the unknown with nothing more than a few pack animals to carry gear. Some GMs may prefer to omit encumbrance rules in this case.

If the GM so elects, then PCs can carry and Ready whatever amount of gear the GM thinks is reasonable. In such cases the GM should check over character sheets before each mission to make sure reason is not outraged.
