---
layout: default
title: Modifying Gear
parent: Crafting and Modifying Gear
nav_order: 2
permalink: /rules-of-the-game/crafting-modifying-gear/modifying-gear/
---

# Modifying Gear

Crafted or purchased gear can be modified by a skilled tech. The individual gear sections describe example mods that are appropriate.

To install mods in gear, a tech needs a suitable workshop capable of fine craftsmanship. Such a shop can be rented for $500 a day in the slums or purchased outright for around $20,000.

Crafting mods also requires a minimum Fix skill, or both Fix and Heal in the case of some cyberware mods. Without this skill level the tech cannot install the mod or maintain it afterwards.

Crafting and installing mods has a cost in dollars and in special tech. The latter involves prototype devices, restricted materials, and other advanced components that are not normally available on the open market. Techs must usually either acquire these things through missions, obtain them as mission rewards, or steal them from manufacturers. If they want more than they get through their normal employment, they may need to plan specific missions around obtaining them. These components are generic in nature, so a given special component can be used in any mod, and a salvaged mod can be stripped for special components.

It takes one week per minimum skill level of the mod to build and install it. Thus, if the mod requires Fix-1 skill, it takes one week, while one requiring Fix-2 and Heal-1 requires three. If the tech has an assistant with at least Fix-0 skill, this time is halved. If they do nothing but eat, sleep, and work, this time is further halved.

Pre-built existing mods can be removed or installed with a day's work. Mods must be built for specific items or cyberware systems; a tech cannot pull a Customized mod off one gun and plug it into another.
