---
layout: default
title: Crafting Gear
parent: Crafting and Modifying Gear
nav_order: 1
permalink: /rules-of-the-game/crafting-modifying-gear/crafting-gear/
---

# Crafting Gear

A tech requires a workshop that could plausibly build the gear in question. This may be nothing more than a toolkit for a simple device, or a full-fledged pharmaceutical lab for others. They also require a plausible source of parts for the device. This is usually a given if in a city or other salvage-rich area, but it may not be practical in a wilderness. Prudent techs can choose to buy a certain dollar amount of spare parts in the city and pack them along in a vehicle.

Building gear takes a month for a vehicle or a week for a weapon, suit of armor, or other portable complex device. Very simple devices may be built faster at the GM's discretion.

Crafted tech is made at three levels of quality. Jury-rigged tech takes one-half the time to build and costs one-quarter the market cost in parts. If scrap salvage is available it can be built at no cost but normal build times. As an improvised device, it counts as a mod requiring Fix-0 to keep functional, as explained below in the mod maintenance rules. If it goes 24 hours without maintenance, it stops functioning. Jury-rigged devices cannot be further modded.

Normal devices cost the same amount in parts as the market cost and take the normal amount of time to build. They cannot be built with salvaged parts unless the GM decides the salvage is perfectly suited for it. Drugs, explosives, and other consumables must be crafted as normal devices rather than jury-rigged or mastercrafted ones.

Mastercrafted devices cost ten times as much in parts as the usual market cost and take twice as long to build. They are ideal platforms for a tech's mods, however, and the first mod their creator installs in them requires no maintenance.
