---
layout: default
title: Edges
parent: Character Creation
nav_order: 5
permalink: /character-creation/edges/
---

# <span id="page-19-0"></span>Edges

Edges define the main talents that make a PC a viable operator. They are major capabilities, aptitudes, or professional functions. An Edge can only be selected once unless indicated otherwise. A beginning PC chooses two, and may choose a third once they reach the fifth level of experience.

## The Underdog Rule

A PC who ends character generation with a attribute modifier total of -1 or less may pick a bonus Edge to reflect the fact that they must have some sort of special talent to have become an operator despite their manifest shortcomings. Their total attribute modifiers must still sum to -1 or less by the end of character creation to claim this bonus; that means that the Prodigy Edge is unlikely to be permissible, as it would probably increase their modifier total above -1.

In campaigns that involve magical Edges or other special powers as Edges, the Underdog Rule bonus may not be used to pick such Edges.

Characters who take advantage of the Underdog Rule may not increase their attribute scores later by spending skill points during character advancement as indicated in section 2.7.1.5. Attribute or modifier enhancements from other sources, such as cyberware or newly-picked Foci, do not disqualify a PC.

## Common Edge List

The Edges below are normal for most cyberpunk campaigns. GMs may add additional options to support certain character concepts that are unique or specific to their setting.

## Adding New Edges

GMs who want to create new Edges to fit their campaign world can easily do so, but they should keep a few points in mind.

Edges should be stronger than Foci, because a PC gets far fewer of them. Each one should give a character-defining ability of some kind, one that strongly influences how a PC plays and preferably gives them options that they wouldn't normally have without the Edge. Lastly, each Edge should support a specific sort of character concept that fits your world. New Edges that just make a PC better at some generic function should be avoided.

## Operator Edges

The Edges below are ones suitable for most campaigns. For more unique settings or campaign premises, your GM may add additional options or strike some of the ones below.

### **Educated**

You may pick a bonus skill of your choice. Whenever you gain skill points from character level advancement, you get a bonus skill point.

### **Face**

Gain Connect as a bonus skill. Once per game week, whenever it's convenient, gain one temporary Acquaintance Contact of your choice, describing them in any way the GM finds acceptable. You lose touch with this Contact after you use this Edge again, but you can use this Edge to connect with them again at a different time. You may also provide favors or payment sufficient to cement the relationship at the GM's discretion.

### **Focused**

You begin play with an extra Focus pick. You may choose this Edge more than once.

### **Ghost**

You are uncannily elusive. Gain Sneak as a bonus skill and the _Fighting Withdrawal_ combat action is an On Turn action for you. Once per scene, reroll a failed Sneak check related to sneaking or going unseen. Once per game day, as a Move action, move up to 10 meters without anyone around you seeing you move. If you use this movement to get behind cover, you might seem to vanish outright to onlookers.

### **Hacker**

Gain Program as a bonus skill. You may begin play with an installed _Cranial Jack_ cybersystem, a scrap deck from [page 75](#page-78-1), and eight program elements of your choice among available Verbs and Subjects. Each round, you gain a bonus Main Action that can only be used to perform hacking or cyberspace-related mental actions. This does not include drone piloting or vehicle driving.

### **Hard To Kill**

Instead of rolling 1d6 per level for your hit points, you roll 1d6+2. Your base Trauma Target increases by +1, turning the base 6 into 7.

### **Killing Blow**

Gain a combat skill as a bonus skill. Whenever you inflict hit point damage on something, whether by weapon, special ability, or any other source, the damage is increased by 1 point per two character levels, rounded up. Any Trauma Die you roll gains a +1 bonus.

### **Masterful Expertise**

Once per scene, as an Instant action, reroll a failed check for a non-combat skill.

### **On Target**

Gain a combat skill as a bonus skill. Your basic attack bonus is equal to your character level, instead of the usual half level, rounded down.

### **Prodigy**

Pick an attribute other than Constitution; its score becomes 18 and it grants a +3 modifier instead of +2. Characters benefiting from the Underdog Rule can't take this Edge.

### **Operator's Fortune**

You may or may not be good, but you are undeniably lucky. Once per game session as an Instant action, when something bad happens to you such as an injury, a failed save, or a botched skill check, test your luck and roll 1d6. On a 1, the bad event is unaffected. On a 2-5, you somehow avert the consequences by blind chance. On a 6, it actually lands on an enemy or rival of the GM's choice, if that's possible. Only events that happened in this same round can be averted.

### **Veteran's Luck**

Once per scene, as an Instant action, trigger this ability to gain one of two effects: an attack roll that just hit you is instead treated as a miss, or an attack roll you just made that missed is instead treated as a hit. This ability can be applied to vehicle weapons used by the operator, but it cannot protect against environmental damage, vehicle crashes, falls, or other harm that doesn't involve an attack roll.

### **Voice of the People**

You are a rocker, graffiti artist, poet, demagogue, or other rabble-rouser with a considerable reputation. You gain both levels of the _Pop Idol_ Focus and an additional Friend Contact related to your art.

### **Wired**

You may begin play with up to \$200,000 worth of new or secondhand cyber. If secondhand, you roll once per system for its defect and may end up with unusable junk. You don't need to pay for installation and its maintenance is covered for the next two months. You can redeem this Edge later in your career by paying double the cost of the cyber you selected; if so, you can trade this Edge in for a different one with the GM's approval. See [page 27](#page-30-0) for example packages of cyber you might pick to suit your character's concept.

<!-- {: .important-title } -->

<!-- > ### **Operators and Classes**
>
> Those familiar with _Worlds Without Number_ and _Stars Without Number_ will notice the absence of multiple classes in this game. Rather than choosing to be a Warrior, an Expert, or a multifaceted Adventurer, every PC in _Cities Without Number_ is some flavor of Operator.
>
> In general, this is because the cyberpunk genre isn't as heavily role-typed as most fantasy genres are; everybody has cyber, everybody has guns, and everybody is some flavor of criminal malcontent. The distinctions lie chiefly in which skills a given character focuses on mastering.
>
> Even so, classed characters from WWN and SWN are still entirely compatible with this game, and there's nothing stopping a GM from allowing characters made using those rules in their own campaign. Indeed, you could even export the Operator creation rules to those other games if you like. If you do mix these games together, however, a few guidelines should be kept in mind.
>
> Operators are treated as their own class, one that cannot be taken as a partial class. A PC is either an Operator or another class entirely.
>
> Operators cannot take Foci from other games that are restricted to specific other classes, such as the Expert-only _Polymath_ Focus.
>
> Operators are balanced on the assumption that every PC is going to eventually have access to potent cybernetic augmentations, and those who don't take them will likely choose the powerful _All Natural_ Focus. If your campaign doesn't have equally ubiquitous cyber, don't allow that Focus.
>
> For GMs who want to mix specific classes from WWN or SWN into their cyberpunk dystopia, the section starting on [page 220](#page-223-0) provides some specific guidelines for integrating these.
>
> While these additional options can be fun for some tables, a GM should never feel obligated to add them. The rules contained within these pages are plenty to build out a host of classic cyberpunk antiheroes, and new options should be added only when they provide something that the GM wants and the campaign can actually use. -->
