---
layout: default
title: Focus Gear Budget
parent: Character Creation
nav_order: 7
permalink: /character-creation/focus-gear-budget/
---

# Focus Gear Budget

Foci such as Ace Driver, Roamer, and Drone Pilot allow a PC to always have a certain amount of vehicle or drone gear available regardless of their financial means, with this budget increasing as they advance in experience level. Characters with Ace Driver or Roamer can use this budget to buy vehicles, vehicle fittings, and vehicle weapons, along with any necessary ammo. Those with Drone Pilot can do the same, except with drones. They are assumed to have stolen, scavenged, or built this gear as needed, and while they can operate it normally the gear is too idiosyncratic to sell or have others operate it long-term. Other PCs can borrow the gear for particular missions, however.

If the gear is destroyed or lost, vehicles can be rebuilt at a rate of $10,000 worth per week. Any number of destroyed drones can be entirely rebuilt in a week. This assumes the PC has ordinary access to an urban area or salvage zone from which to acquire parts.

Focus gear budgets cannot be used to buy vehicles, fittings, or weapons that the PCs could not readily acquire in another way. For example, if they don't have someone willing to sell them a tank, the PC with Ace Driver cannot use their budget to buy a tank.

If the PC wants more than their budget allows they can spend their own money to supplement the difference. This additional expense is not covered by their ability to freely rebuild lost or damaged gear, however.

<span id="page-21-1"></span>

| PC Level | Vehicle Budget | Drone Budget |
| -------- | -------------- | ------------ |
| 1        | \$5,000        | \$1,000      |
| 2        | \$10,000       | \$5,000      |
| 3        | \$15,000       | \$10,000     |
| 4        | \$20,000       | \$15,000     |
| 5        | \$30,000       | \$20,000     |
| 6        | \$40,000       | \$25,000     |
| 7        | \$60,000       | \$35,000     |
| 8        | \$80,000       | \$45,000     |
| 9        | \$100,000      | \$60,000     |
| 10       | \$200,000      | \$80,000     |
