---
layout: default
title: Heavy Weapons
parent: Weapons
nav_order: 4
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/weapons/heavy-weapons/
---

# Heavy Weapons

While uncommon, some operators may be unfortunate enough to run into military opposition or antagonists who have no concerns about drawing intolerable heat from the local authorities. These combatants are likely to pack weaponry much heavier than a normal street operative would sport. For operators, using weapons like the ones below on most missions would risk perilously intense reprisals by worried corps and local police.

| Heavy Weapon          | Dmg   | Range   | Cost   | Mag     | Attr | Enc. | TD   | TR  |
| :-------------------- | :---- | :------ | :----- | :------ | :--- | :--- | :--- | :-- |
| Anti-Materiel Rifle ¶ | 3d8!  | 1K/2K   | $8,000 | 5       | Dex  | 3    | 1d12 | x3  |
| Grnd. Launcher        | Gren. | 150/350 | $3,000 | 3       | Dex  | 1    | -    | -   |
| Demo Charge           | 3d10! | 20/20   | $1,000 | -       | -    | 1    | 1d10 | x3  |
| Hvy Machine Gun ¶     | 3d6#! | 500/2K  | $10K   | 10      | Dex  | 3    | 1d12 | x3  |
| Mortar                | 3d6   | 1K/2K   | $5,000 | 1       | Wis  | 3    | 1d12 | x3  |
| Rocket Launcher       | 3d10! | 2K/4K   | $5,000 | -       | Dex  | 2    | 1d10 | x3  |
| Land Mine, Anti-Pers. | 1d8   | -       | $150   | -       | -    | 1    | 1d10 | x3  |
| Land Mine, Anti-Vehc. | 3d8!  | -       | -      | $1,000@ | -    | 2    | 1d20 | x3  |

@: This weapon requires an applicable Contact to buy, being generally illegal for open sale

¶: If not fired from a stationary rest, this weapon’s statistics are the same as a regular rifle

#: This weapon can fire to suppress if fixed to a vehicle or stationary firing position

!: This weapon’s Trauma Die can inflict Traumatic Hits on drones, vehicles, and other machines.

Anti-materiel rifles have encountered something of a renaissance with the ubiquity of armored drones and heavily cybered combatants. While not suitable for downing tanks or other heavily armored vehicles, their 20mm rounds are more than sufficient to punch through lighter armor plating, concrete walls, and full body conversion cyborgs. Use of a secure firing rest is recommended for best results.

Grenade launchers are accessories that are mounted on rifle-sized firearms, adding 1 Encumbrance to their bulk. These weapons can launch specially-designed grenades to the listed range, targeting them as if they were thrown normally. These special grenades cost and function the same as their regular equivalents but cannot be thrown by hand. When attacking, the user can choose whether to fire the grenade launcher or the weapon it’s mounted to, but both cannot be fired in the same round.

Stand-alone grenade launcher models are available for vehicle or drone mounting, counting as 2 Encumbrance but otherwise having the same cost and statistics.

Demo charges are shaped explosive charges usually meant to knock human-sized holes in anything short of fortified defensive walls. While ineffective as thrown weapons, when used as part of a trap or ambush they inflict their listed damage in a cone out to normal range, with an Evasion save for half damage. If applied carefully to a vehicle target, the following explosion will inevitably destroy it. Like frag grenades, use of demo charges tends to be very exciting to security forces and can provoke more heat than many operators like to draw.

Heavy machine guns are old tech, but reliable. Without a fixed firing position or vehicle mount, however, their recoil makes them almost uncontrollable. Due to the mass of lead involved in firing an HMG, each “round” of its ammunition costs $100 and counts as a full item of encumbrance.

Mortars are rare, but have their uses amid the tall buildings of an urban sprawl. They have a minimum range of 20 meters, but can lob indirect fire over buildings and obstacles. Mortars always target AC 20 at first, but each round of fire at the same target grants a +1 hit bonus if there’s a forward spotter to adjust the aim. Mortar rounds act as frag grenades on the target point, but do 3d6 damage at base with a 10-meter radius. Armor doesn’t lessen harm from mortar rounds.

Relatively simple as they are, a mortar round costs $50 and counts as one item of encumbrance.

Rocket launchers include a wide variety of single-shot disposable launchers. Their general imprecision forces a -4 hit penalty against human-sized targets, but they inflict frag grenade damage on any target within 5 meters of the rocket’s landing point. Specialized anti-armor warheads lose this frag grenade bonus, but do double damage to vehicles or obstacles. Operators who intend to take down enemy vehicles favor them for their effectiveness in that role.

Land mines come in anti-personnel and anti-vehicle flavors. The first activates on any human-sized approach within 1 meter, inflicting damage in a 2-meter radius with an Evasion save for half. Anti-vehicle mines can only be activated by vehicular levels of ground pressure or vehicle-sized proximate metal masses, but do their damage in a 5-meter radius. Humans get an Evasion save for half damage in either case.
