---
layout: default
title: Weapon Stats and Definitions
parent: Weapons
nav_order: 1
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/weapons/weapon-stats-and-definitions/
---

# Weapon Stats and Definitions

Dmg is the die it rolls for hit point damage on a successful hit. This damage is always increased by the weapon’s relevant attribute modifier, and it may be further boosted by certain Foci or mods.

Range is expressed in meters for guns and thrown weapons, with a normal range and an extreme range. Attacks beyond normal range take a -2 hit penalty.

Cost is the average street cost for the weapon.

Shock applies only to melee weapons. If the target’s melee AC is equal or less than the weapon’s Shock rating, the target takes the listed Shock damage even if the attack misses. Shock damage is modified by the weapon’s attribute modifier and any damage bonuses that explicitly add to Shock.

Mag is the number of rounds in a loaded firearm. Each attack costs one round, while using a weapon in burst fire mode costs three. Reloading a weapon is usually a Main Action.

Attr is the attribute that modifies the weapon’s hit and damage roll. If two attributes are listed, you can use whichever one has the better modifier.

Encumbrance is the number of items of encumbrance the weapon takes up. Weapons must be Readied to use them; if not, the attacker must spend a Main Action getting them ready for employment.

Trauma Die is the die rolled when a lethal weapon hits. If it’s equal or higher than the target’s Trauma Target, which is usually 6, the victim takes a Traumatic Hit. Non-lethal weapons and attacks do not roll the Trauma Die.

Trauma Rating is the multiplier applied to a weapon's total damage when it makes a Traumatic Hit.

## 3.4.1.1 Burst Firing

Some firearms can fire in bursts. Such attacks use up three rounds of ammunition and add +2 to the weapon's hit roll and damage die.

## 3.4.1.2 Suppressive Fire

If a weapon can fire to suppress, the wielder may do so as a Main Action. Each round of suppressive fire costs twice the usual ammo.

The attacker picks a 90-degree cone and fills it with lead. Any targets within the weapon’s normal range who are not behind hard cover must make an Evasion save or take half the weapon’s damage, rounded up. The attacker rolls the weapon’s Trauma Die individually against each victim struck, and may inflict Traumatic Hits with this damage.

## 3.4.1.3 Grenade Weapons

Grenades may be thrown at a point within range and always target AC 10. On a miss, the grenade bounces 1d10 meters in a random direction before exploding. Most grenades have a 5-meter radius of effect.
