---
layout: default
title: Melee and Thrown Weapons
parent: Weapons
nav_order: 3
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/weapons/melee-thrown-weapons/
---

# Melee and Thrown Weapons

Virtually every ganger or thug has at least a knife on their person. The quality of such weapons can vary from bits of curb-sharpened metal to the latest monomolecular-edge fighting knives.

| Weapon             | Dmg   | Rng.  | Cost   | Shock   | Attr.   | Enc. | TD  | TR  |
| :----------------- | :---- | :---- | :----- | :------ | :------ | :--- | :-- | :-- |
| Unarmed Attack     | 1d2^  | -     | -      | -       | Str/Dex | -    | 1d6 | x1  |
| Knife              | 1d4   | 10/20 | $20    | 1/AC 15 | Str/Dex | 1    | 1d6 | x3  |
| Club               | 1d4^  | 10/20 | N/A    | 1/AC 18 | Str     | -    | 1d6 | x2  |
| Spear              | 1d6   | 10/20 | $50    | 2/AC 13 | Str/Dex | 1    | 1d8 | x3  |
| Sword              | 1d8   | -     | $200   | 2/AC 13 | Str/Dex | 1    | 1d8 | x2  |
| Big Sword          | 2d6   | -     | $500   | 2/AC 15 | Str     | -    | 1d8 | x3  |
| Big Club           | 1d10^ | -     | $100   | 2/AC 18 | Str     | -    | 1d8 | x3  |
| Advanced Knife     | 1d6   | 10/20 | $200   | 2/AC 15 | Str/Dex | 1    | 1d8 | x3  |
| Advanced Sword     | 1d10  | -     | $1,000 | 3/AC 15 | Str/Dex | 1    | 1d8 | x3  |
| Advanced Big Sword | 2d8   | -     | $2,500 | 4/AC 15 | Str     | -    | 1d8 | x3  |
| Advanced Club      | 1d8^  | -     | $500   | 2/AC 18 | Str     | -    | 1d8 | x3  |
| Grenade, Flash     | Spec. | 10/30 | $50    | None    | Dex     | -    | 1d2 | x2  |
| Grenade, Frag      | 2d6   | 10/30 | $100   | -       | Dex     | -    | 1d8 | x2  |
| Grenade, Gas       | 1d10^ | 10/30 | $50    | None    | Dex     | -    | 1d2 | x2  |
| Grenade, Smoke     | -     | 10/30 | $25    | None    | Dex     | -    | 1d2 | x2  |

^: This weapon’s damage is always non-lethal, unless desired otherwise. Non-lethal hits don’t roll the Trauma Die.

\*: This is a two-handed weapon, making it impossible to have a Readied item in the user’s off-hand

@: This weapon requires an applicable Contact to buy, being generally illegal for open sale

Knives, clubs, swords, and other simple melee weapons are available almost anywhere on the street. Particularly impoverished gangers sometimes fashion makeshift machetes and improvised shivs when better can’t be obtained. Such weapons are effectively free, but have a -1 penalty to hit and damage rolls due to their ungainly make.

Advanced weapons employ modern polymers, sophisticated metallurgy, fractal edges, electro-stun tech, and a small legion of marketers to sell products that are distinctly superior to the plain steel edges of a prior age.

Flash grenades force victims without eye and ear protection to make a Physical save; on a failure, the victim loses their next Main Action and takes a -2 penalty to hit rolls and AC for the next 1d6 rounds. Flashbang effects don’t stack, and a target who makes their save cannot be flashbanged again that same round.

Frag grenades inflict 2d6 damage on all victims in range, plus the chance for a Traumatic Hit. An Evasion save can halve a frag grenade’s damage, and each point of melee AC the target has above 14 reduces the final damage total by one point, possibly down to zero.

Gas grenades create a 10-meter-diameter cloud of opaque, choking, irritating gas that disperses in one round. They inflict non-lethal damage, halved on a successful Physical save, and are useless against targets with breathing protection. They provide full concealment for those within the gas. Smoke grenades are harmless, but provide the same 10-meter dome of concealment where it’s necessary. Gas and smoke aren’t enough to defeat IR or augmented visuals.
