---
layout: default
title: Firearms
parent: Weapons
nav_order: 2
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/weapons/firearms/
---

# Firearms

| Firearm           | Dmg    | Range       | Cost    | Mag | Attr. | Enc. | TD    | TR  |
| :---------------- | :----- | :---------- | :------ | :-- | :---- | :--- | :---- | :-- |
| Light Pistol      | 1d6    | 10/80       | $200    | 15  | Dex   | 1    | 1d8   | x2  |
| Heavy Pistol      | 1d8    | 10/100      | $200    | 8   | Dex   | 1    | 1d6   | x3  |
| Advanced Bow      | 1d8    | 30/200      | $500    | 1§  | Dex   | 2    | 1d8+1 | x3  |
| Rifle             | 1d10+2 | 200/400     | $1,000  | 10  | Dex   | 2    | 1d8   | x3  |
| Combat Rifle      | 1d12\* | 100/300     | $2,500  | 30  | Dex   | 2    | 1d8   | x3  |
| Submachine Gun    | 1d8\*  | 30/100      | $2,000  | 20  | Dex   | 1    | 1d6   | x2  |
| Shotgun           | 3d4    | 10/30       | $200    | 2   | Dex   | 2    | 1d10  | x3  |
| Semi-Auto Shotgun | 3d4    | 10/30       | $1,000  | 6   | Dex   | 2    | 1d10  | x3  |
| Combat Shotgun    | 3d4\*  | 10/30       | $3,000  | 12  | Dex   | 2    | 1d10  | x3  |
| Sniper Rifle¶     | 2d8    | 1,000/2,000 | $3,000  | 1§  | Dex   | 2    | 1d10  | x4  |
| Taser Pistol      | 1d8    | 10/15       | $500    | 2   | Dex   | 1    | -     | -   |
| Automatic Rifle   | 2d8#   | 200/400     | $10,000 | 10  | Dex   | 4    | 1d10  | x3  |

\*: This weapon may use burst fire when attacking, firing three rounds to gain +2 to hit and damage rolls.
§: This weapon can be reloaded with a Move action, or an On Turn if the user has at least Shoot-1 skill
¶: If not fired from a stationary rest, this weapon’s statistics are the same as a regular rifle
@: This weapon requires an applicable Contact to buy, being generally illegal for open sale
#: This weapon can fire to suppress if braced against a solid support or the gunner is prone

Light and heavy pistols are categorized by the caliber of the bullet they fire. Some operators prefer the low recoil and high mag capacity possible with a low-caliber round, while others like to have a little more certainty in dropping the targets they hit.

Advanced bows are used by a few specialists who prefer the near-silence that modern composites provide or the massive blood loss induced by a modern fractal broadhead carried on a fifty-gram arrow.

Rifles and combat rifles are similar semi-automatic tech, though the latter is equipped with a burst-fire selector and usually trades the range of a heavier caliber for the ability to carry more ammunition.

Submachine guns are popular for their small form factor and convenient burst fire, though like other burst-fire weaponry the corps frown heavily on civilian possession.

Shotguns of various stripes can be found under the counter of practically every bar and shop in a slum. Simple double-barrel models can be made by any home gunsmith with a pulse, but the finer tolerances and more elaborate machining of a burst-fire capable combat shotgun leaves them as a more selective product. Ranges and damages given are for shot shells; slugs double their normal and extreme ranges but apply a -1 penalty to hit rolls.

Sniper rifles are often nothing more than bolt-action rifles with expensive tuning and optics. If not fired from a rest in a prepared position, a sniper rifle’s statistics are the same as a normal rifle.

Taser pistols cover a family of ranged non-lethal weapons small and light enough to carry concealed. Most rely on tried-and-true electrical shocks to drop a target; they inflict non-lethal hit point damage and cannot make Traumatic Hits.

Automatic rifles include a large range of barely man-portable firearms designed to hurl vast amounts of lead through the air, and unlike smaller firearms, they can use suppressive fire if properly braced. Ammunition for these guns comes in belts or boxes. The mag rating reflects how many rounds the weapon can fire before needing a refill, with each “round” costing $50 worth of ammunition. The compactness of their loaded magazines still only counts as one item, however.
