---
layout: default
title: Weapon Mods
parent: Weapons
nav_order: 5
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/weapons/weapon-mods/
---

# Weapon Mods

The mods listed here can be applied to weapons by a tech with the listed skill level at the given costs, as explained in section 2.8.2. Some require a certain number of units of special technology as well as ordinary parts. Unless specified otherwise, a given mod can be applied only once to an item.

| Mod                 | Skill | Cost    | Special Components |
| :------------------ | :---- | :------ | :----------------- |
| Autotargeting       | Fix-1 | $5,000  | 0                  |
| Concealed           | Fix-2 | $5,000  | 1                  |
| Customized          | Fix-1 | $1,000  | 0                  |
| Extended Mag        | Fix-1 | $1,000  | 0                  |
| Heavy Sabot         | Fix-1 | $2,000  | 0                  |
| Integral Toxins     | Fix-2 | $10,000 | 1                  |
| Onboard Gunlink     | Fix-2 | $10,000 | 1                  |
| Predictive Guidance | Fix-3 | $15,000 | 2                  |
| Reel Wires          | Fix-1 | $2,500  | 0                  |
| Savage Impact       | Fix-1 | $5,000  | 0                  |
| Shock Burst         | Fix-2 | $5,000  | 0                  |
| Stun Rounds         | Fix-2 | $5,000  | 0                  |
| Thermal Charge      | Fix-2 | $7,500  | 0                  |

### Autotargeting:

The weapon has kinetic sensors embedded in it that synchronize with onboard targeting chips. The user gains a +1 bonus to all hit rolls with the weapon, but needs to connect with it via either a Gunlink or a Cranial Jack.

### Concealed:

Materials are replaced, outlines are altered, and appearances are adjusted. Pistol-sized and smaller weapons now cannot be detected without a full minute of patting down the bearer, while anything no larger than a rifle can be concealed as if it were a pistol, unfolding to full size upon use.

### Customized:

The weapon’s balance and form are tailored to a specific user. That user gains a +1 bonus to all hit rolls with the weapon.

### Extended Magazine:

Caliber adjustments, feed assists, and magazine dimension alterations double a gun’s reliable magazine capacity.

### Heavy Sabot:

Applicable only to projectile weapons, the gun is modified to fire heavy AP rounds that can plausibly land Traumatic Hits even on armored vehicles or heavy drones.

### Integral Toxins:

A melee or thrown weapon is impregnated with numerous microcells of an advanced hemotoxin, the cells rupturing on impact with a target. The weapon does +2 damage and Shock to subjects not immune to poison.

### Onboard Gunlink:

Usable only on firearms, the weapon’s onboard targeting hardware emulates the effects of the Gunlink cyber-system. The user must have a Cranial Jack system to plug it in.

### Predictive Guidance:

An entire onboard computing core is augmented by advanced materials and cutting-edge kinetic analysis to increase the odds of landing a lethal blow. The weapon gains a +1 bonus to hit rolls, damage, and Shock. The user must be connected via a Gunlink or a Cranial Jack cybersystem.

### Reel Wires:

A thrown weapon is linked to a wrist spool with retractable wires that allow its retrieval as an On Turn action. The wires can be cut by a properly-timed attack with a sharp weapon, but are too thin and sharp to be easily grabbed. The wires can drag up to 20 kilos of mass when retracting. Replacing broken wires takes fifteen minutes.

### Savage Impact:

Usable only on melee weapons, powered impact plates, vibrating serrations, or other after-market adjustments increase its damage and Shock by +1.

### Shock Burst:

Once per fight, as an On Turn action, the weapon can imbue itself or a round of ammunition with an electrical charge, inflicting an additional 2d6 damage on a hit, or +2 damage to melee Shock on the next attack. This damage is not affected by the +3 cap to mod hit and damage.

### Stun Rounds:

Usable only on firearms, the weapon’s barrel and firing mechanism is altered to accept soft, electrically-charged stun rounds. The firearm’s range is halved, it takes a -2 penalty to damage, and it loses its Trauma Die, but all damage it inflicts is treated as non-lethal. Stun rounds do no significant harm to inanimate objects.

### Thermal Charge:

Usable only on melee or thrown weapons, the mod adds a bank of heat cells to the weapon. The weapon then inflicts +2 damage and Shock to all creatures not impervious to heat. The cells are activated as an On Turn action, but last for only two fights before requiring an hour to swap batteries and let the elements cool.
