---
layout: default
title: Program Subjects
parent: Hacking
nav_order: 2
permalink: /hacking/programs/program-subjects/
---

# Program Subjects

The Subjects listed below are the ones most often relevant to an operator. Other Subjects do exist, as do more specialized, specific utilities that aim at specific types of devices or particular models of hardware.

| Subject             | Cost   | Subject Type |
| :------------------ | :----- | :----------- |
| Avatar              | $500   | Avatar       |
| Barrier             | $1,000 | Data         |
| Camera              | $500   | Device       |
| Cyber               | $1,000 | Cyber        |
| Datafile            | $500   | Data         |
| Door                | $500   | Device       |
| Drone               | $1,000 | Device       |
| Machine             | $500   | Device       |
| Program             | $500   | Program      |
| Sensor              | $500   | Device       |
| Transmission        | $1,000 | Data         |
| Turret              | $1,000 | Device       |
| Specialized Subject | $x2    | -            |
| Unique Subject      | $x4    | -            |

### Avatar:

A cyberspace avatar, whether one adopted by a hacker who’s jacked into the network or a Demon program standing guard there.

### Barrier:

A network node barrier that blocks avatars from passing through a network connection.

### Camera:

Any device that transmits audiovisual information. Some defensive hardware has its own onboard camera, which is susceptible to this target, while others rely on a separate device’s input.

### Cyber:

A cybernetic system in a visible subject within 30 meters with no significant obstacles to line of sight. Unlike most Subjects, it’s not necessary for a hacker to manifest an avatar inside the target node to affect cyber systems; they can launch their program directly at it, and the system itself need not be visible on the target’s body. Given the difficulty of affecting cyber wirelessly, many hackers prefer to use more specific Subjects for a +1 bonus, such as Nerve Cyber or Limb Cyber.

### Datafile:

A datafile stored within a cyberspace location. While individual files may have very little actual data in them, the autoencryption functions and anti-tamper code they’re wrapped in almost always take up a full unit of Memory per file .

### Door:

A physical door, shutter, hatch, or other barrier with an electronic lock or opening mechanism.

### Drone:

A remote-controlled drone. The base difficulty is equal to 7 plus the operator’s level or HD/3, rounded up, or 8 if it’s not actively controlled. Like the Cyber Subject, it is not necessary to manifest in a drone’s node to hack it wirelessly.

### Machine:

Security panels, factory machinery, electronic minefields, or any other hackable device not covered under an existing Subject. Its generality applies a +1 penalty to the security difficulty.

### Program:

A hostile program, used most often with the Terminate verb to end the effects of an enemy hacker’s programs prematurely.

### Sensor:

Similar to the Camera element, this code block handles sensors of any kind, regardless of what they are intended to detect. The generality of the element decreases its efficiency, however, and it applies a +1 security difficulty penalty.

### Transmission:

Ambient radio transmissions can be affected with this element, most often for the purpose of tampering with local comms. A hacker need not be jacked into a cyberspace node to target local radio transmissions, but the usual -2 check penalty for wireless hacking applies.

### Turret:

A security turret, emplaced gun, or other fixed automated weapon.

## Specialized Subjects

The Subject elements for sale in most underworld circles are intentionally generic in nature. They’re packed with basic intrusion profiles for dozens or hundreds of different targets of that type, with a host of generic exploits and cracks stored in their database. Even if the specific target model isn’t on their list, there are enough generic resources to give the hacker a chance.

A specialized Subject is more focused, however. Instead of being a Cyber Subject, for example, it might be a Nerve Cyber Subject. These specialized Subjects are useless against more generic systems, but against their specific target, they grant a +1 bonus to any skill checks the program may require. Thus, the Nerve Cyber Subject would be worthless against a cyberleg, but could affect an Enhanced Reflexes I system.

A unique Subject is focused on a single system, device model, or specific make of target. Instead of being a Nerve Cyber Subject, it might be an Enhanced Reflexes I Subject, or instead of a Flying Drone Target, it might be a Xiaowen Phoenix Subject. It’s useless against anything but that specific target, but grants a +2 bonus to any relevant skill checks.

Specialized Subjects are sometimes available on the black market. Unique Subjects are almost never to be found for casual purchase, and either require hand-development by the hacker who might need them or a specific Contact who can get them.
