---
layout: default
title: Body Cyberware
parent: Cyberware Systems
nav_order: 1
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-systems/body-cyberware/
---

# Body Cyberware

The systems below are some of the more common ones available. Each one is listed with their price, type, concealment level, and the permanent System Strain they add.

Cyber systems are divided by type, indicating what general part of the body they affect. This may be relevant if a Major Injury destroys all cyber of a particular type in a limb of torso.

| Cyberware                          | Cost  | Type | Concealment Level | System Strain |
| :--------------------------------- | :---- | :--- | :---------------- | :------------ |
| Aesthetic Augmentation Suite       | $50K  | Body | Sight             | 2             |
| Assisted Glide System              | $50K  | Body | Touch             | 2             |
| Banshee Module                     | $30K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Cybernetic Infrastructure Baseline | $20K  | Body | Medical           | 0             |
| Deadman Circuit                    | $10K  | Body | Sight             | 0.25          |
| Dermal Armor/Trauma Shielding      | $100K | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Emergency Stabilization Factor     | $30K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Fleshmod                           | $20K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Full Body Conversion               | $6M   | Body | Sight             | 0             |
| Hemosynthetic Filter System        | $25K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Holdout Cavity                     | $10K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Medical Support Readout            | $10K  | Body | Medical           | 0.25          |
| Recovery Support Unit              | $30K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Redundant Systems                  | $15K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Retribution Shield                 | $50K  | Body | Touch             | 1             |
| Therapeutic Control Dampers        | $25K  | Body | Medical           | 1             |
| Titan Gun System                   | $100K | Body | Sight             | 1             |
| Viper Sting                        | $25K  | Body | Medical           | 0.5           |

### Aesthetic Augmentation Suite:

Any standard fleshmod can supply beauty, but an aesthetic augmentation suite provides not only a fleshmod’s versatility, but tailored pheromones, vocal harmonizers, social cue triggers, and an absolutely inhuman visual perfection. Subjects gain a Charisma score of 14, or a +2 score bonus if already 14 or greater, up to a maximum of 18.

### Assisted Glide System:

Retractable nanofiber wings and integral boost jets allow a limited degree of flight for the user of this implant. When leaping from a high place, they gain a flight Move speed of 30m for up to two kilometers before being forced to land. Gaining altitude requires a Dex/Exert skill check against difficulty 10, however, with failure forcing a landing, and the wings can’t carry them more than twice as high as the height they jumped from. By deploying the boost jets and wings as an Instant action, the user can ignore up to a hundred meters of falling damage.

### Banshee Module:

Resonant cavities are designed into the user’s torso, along with an advanced amplification system. They can reproduce any sound or voice they have heard before, and at maximum volume can be heard clearly up to five hundred meters away. Once per day, as a Main Action, this sound can be used to shatter normal glass in a ten-meter line in front of the user; creatures without ear protection in this area must make a Physical save or take 2d6 non-lethal damage.

### Cybernetic Infrastructure Baseline:

A set of standardized support implants provide a baseline degree of cyber-compatibility to a subject. They can ignore System Strain from cyber implants equal to 12 minus their Constitution score- so a PC with a Constitution of 9 could ignore three points worth of System Strain from cyber implants. PCs with a Con of 12 or more have no use for this system.

### Deadman Circuit:

A common corporate implant to discourage kidnapping and warelegging. Any attempt to remove any of the user’s cyber without the right access codes will fry that hardware unless a difficulty 13 Int/Heal skill check is made.

### Dermal Armor/Trauma Shielding:

A system that can only be installed on a user with at least one level of Dermal Armor, the trauma shielding addition adds +1 to the user’s Trauma Target. This benefit stacks with any existing Dermal Armor bonus to the roll.

### Emergency Stabilization Factor:

When brought to zero hit points by an injury that does not instantly kill them, the user automatically stabilizes, gaining one System Strain, and will regain consciousness at the end of the scene with 1 hit point. If they are already at maximum strain, this cyberware does not function.

### Fleshmod:

Careful surgery and support implants allow for a complete physical remolding within generally humanoid lines, including alterations of sex, height, cosmetic limbs such as tails or decorative ears, and overall weight. Reproductive ability is not conferred, but rumors persist of experimental mods that can grant even that.

### Full Body Conversion:

The user’s brain and central nervous system are transplanted into a cutting-edge synthetic shell at a cost and difficulty as if this cyber took 4 System Strain. Once converted, the subject has an effective Constitution of 20 for System Strain purpose, but cannot be healed by conventional first aid or medical drugs, requiring ten minutes of repair work with a toolkit to repair any amount of damage, and $250 worth of parts for each hit point to be restored. A full conversion borg no longer requires food, water, air, or sleep, but each day without the latter adds one System Strain due to the mental stress. The conversion requires twelve hours of maintenance every two weeks, and missing it will result in the user’s death in 2d6 days unless the omitted maintenance is performed. Current full-body conversion tech is unstable; after 1d4 years, the subject has a cumulative 5% death chance each year. Borgs do not take Major Injuries and gain a +6 bonus to their Trauma Target that stacks with existing bonuses.

### Hemosynthetic Filter System:

A wide-spectrum array of blood scrubbers, intake filters, and microbial barriers grants the user effective immunity to most natural diseases and non-synthetic toxins. Weaponized toxins and certain exotic natural afflictions can still affect the user, but they get a +2 bonus on all saving throws against them. The system automatically alerts the user if they have been exposed to a recognized disease or toxin, whether or not it affects them.

### Holdout Cavity:

A biosculpted torso pocket allows for the air-tight, climate-controlled concealment of 2 Encumbrance worth of items inside the user’s body and their easy access with a Main Action. Any given object stored can’t be larger than a pistol or a tightly-folded suit of clothing, and the pocket’s contents don’t count against the user’s Encumbrance limit. The pocket’s signature is disguised against conventional scanning technology, and it cannot be detected without a manual strip search by a trained examiner.

### Medical Support Readout:

A diagnostic system is interfaced with the user’s biological processes, allowing a realtime analysis of their current health and any significant injuries. Aside from immediately alerting the user when they are poisoned, diseased, or injured, it grants any healing or medical support skill check a +2 bonus thanks to the diagnostic information and increases first aid or drug healing by +2 HP per application.

### Recovery Support Unit:

A number of support systems and blood purification filters are installed. The user can absorb up to four points of System Strain incurred from healing or wound stabilization effects; this is a separate pool that recovers one point every night at the same time as the user’s natural System Strain recovers.

### Redundant Systems:

Several pieces of prosthetic support cyber are preemptively installed to mitigate future trauma. When the user takes a Major Injury, they may instead choose to have the Redundant Systems critically damaged instead of accepting the major injury roll result. Redundant Systems can be installed more than once, but the System Strain inflicted increases by one point each time.

### Retribution Shield:

Numerous small projectile launchers are embedded under synthetic skin. When triggered as an On Turn action, the user gains one System Strain to launch a cloud of shrapnel around them, acting as ground zero of a frag grenade explosion. The user has enough targeting control to avoid hitting allies in range. If grappling or grappled at the time, their opponent automatically takes maximum damage. Reloading the Retribution Shield takes five minutes, and the system will not function if the user is wearing suit-grade armor. Lesser armor can usually be tailored to expose adequate amounts of skin.

### Therapeutic Control Dampers:

A set of customized medical and therapeutic implants are used to control the side-effects of a partially-successful cyberware implant. For each implantation of this system, the user can choose to ignore one implant side-effect they currently suffer. The skill check to implant this system can fail, but it never induces any side effects on its own.

### Titan Gun System:

Usable only by full body conversion cyborgs or subjects with a Strength score of 18, this mount allows the installation of any man-portable Heavy weapon such as those given in the Weapons section. The user counts as a stable firing rest, and the weapon has two integral magazines of ammo, though it can be loaded by hand as well. The specific weapon mounted can be swapped during maintenance.

### Viper Sting:

A tool of assassins, a Viper Sting is a fang, fingernail needle, palm injector, or more exotic implement for injecting an unsuspecting target with a drug of the user’s choice. A Viper Sting can be loaded with up to four doses of pharmaceuticals, dispensed as the user wishes. If loaded with a toxin, it does 1d12 damage with a 1d10/x3 Trauma Die. If a tranquilizer is used, the damage is the same, but unconsciousness will result instead of death. A Viper Sting can only be effectively used as part of an Execution Attack, as an alert opponent can avoid it easily. This cyber inflicts a -2 penalty on any check to detect its presence.
