---
layout: default
title: Sensory Cyberware
parent: Cyberware Systems
nav_order: 5
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-systems/sensory-cyberware/
---

# Sensory Cyberware

The systems below are some of the more common ones available. Each one is listed with their price, type, concealment level, and the permanent System Strain they add.

Cyber systems are divided by type, indicating what general part of the body they affect. This may be relevant if a Major Injury destroys all cyber of a particular type in a limb of torso.

| Cyberware                    | Cost | Type    | Concealment Level | System Strain |
| :--------------------------- | :--- | :------ | :---------------- | :------------ |
| Active Sense Processor       | $50K | Sensory | Medical           | 1             |
| Cyberears (pair)             | $10K | Sensory | Touch             | 0.25          |
| Cybereyes (pair)             | $10K | Sensory | Sight             | 0.25          |
| Ear Mod/Filter               | $10K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Ear Mod/Positional Detection | $15K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Ear Mod/Sonar                | $20K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Ear Mod/Tracer               | $10K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Eye Mod/Impostor             | $10K | Sensory | Medical           | 1             |
| Eye Mod/Infrared Vision      | $5K  | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Eye Mod/Low Light Vision     | $5K  | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Eye Mod/Tactical View        | $10K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Eye Mod/Zoom                 | $10K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Gunlink                      | $25K | Sensory | Touch             | 1             |
| Headcomm                     | $1K  | Sensory | Medical           | 0.25          |
| Sensory Recorder             | $10K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Synthears (pair)             | $25K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.25          |
| Syntheyes (pair)             | $25K | Sensory | Medical           | 0.25          |

### Active Sense Processor:

Augmented sensory processing grants a +1 Wisdom modifier for all skill checks involving sensing or noticing things, up to a +2 modifier maximum.

### Cyberears:

While normal in appearance, touch reveals the synthetic nature of these ears. Some owners prefer to style them in fanciful or unnatural ways. While the base model provides only normal human hearing, all are equipped with ear protection against loud noises. A pair of cyberears or synthears halves the System Strain cost of ear implants.

### Cybereyes:

While a single cybernetic eye can be implanted, it is recommended that both be replaced at the same time to improve neural adaptation. These cybereyes are clearly artificial, though most are styled in attractive or striking fashions. They all have perfect 20/20 vision and integral flash protectors, but additional functionality must be implanted separately. A user with a pair of cybereyes or syntheyes halves the System Strain cost of cybernetic eye implants.

### Ear Mod/Filter:

The user’s sense of hearing is sharpened remarkably, allowing them to follow individual conversations in a noisy crowd, eavesdrop on whispers up to twenty meters distant, and gain a +2 bonus on all hearing-related Notice checks.

### Ear Mod/Positional Detection:

This ear mod constructs a spatial map of significant surrounding sounds, allowing the user to know the exact location of anything making audible noise. The precise location of distant shooters, the location of targets in visual concealment, and the positions of moving creatures in darkness are all clear.

### Ear Mod/Sonar:

The user can navigate even in darkness or while blinded by means of ultrasonic sensors, being able to construct a crude map of people and obstacles in front of them out to 20 meters. This sense is the equivalent of vision, though it can’t discern details more subtle than faces.

### Ear Mod/Tracer:

As an On Turn action, the user can nominate a target within 20 meters. Until they get more than 100 meters away from the user or pass behind a solid barrier, the implant’s hyper-specific hearing can track their motions perfectly and overhear anything they say or that is said to them. The user can listen to one such target at a time.

### Eye Mod/Impostor:

Aside from allowing free alteration of eye color, this mod allows the user to copy another person’s retinal patterns. Provided they are within two meters, they need only meet the user’s gaze for a few moments to get a good imprint. The eye can store up to a dozen imprints, but it takes a Main Action to shift from one to another. Note that it is a relatively simple procedure to alter a person’s retinal pattern, so an important target alerted to the imposture may end up changing their imprint.

### Eye Mod/Infrared Vision:

The infrared vision this mod allows permits basic navigation in dark areas and makes the presence of heat sources such as humans, engines, and infrared tripwires very obvious. The user gains a +1 bonus on any Notice checks to detect the presence of thermally-unshielded living creatures.

### Eye Mod/Low Light Vision:

This mod grants low-light vision, allowing clear sight to normal distances in any light condition better than pitch blackness.

### Eye Mod/Tactical View:

These eyes can receive text or video transmissions and play them on an inset in the user’s normal vision. Outline and pattern discrimination is enhanced; when specifically looking for things or keeping watch, gain a +1 bonus to any relevant Notice check.

### Eye Mod/Zoom:

The user’s vision can zoom in on distant targets. The user can see objects within 500 meters as if they were standing next to them. The hit penalty for a ranged weapon’s long range is eliminated.

### Gunlink:

Hardwired control points interface with the onboard targeting systems of most modern firearms. When using a modern firearm, the PC ignores range penalties and negates up to 2 points of hit penalties for cover, concealment, or prone targets. Once per scene, as an Instant action, they can reroll a missed attack roll with a gun.

### Headcomm:

An implanted phone/short-range radio that can directly communicate within 100 meters or use the phone grid, if it’s available. For cranial security reasons, only text and voice can be transmitted, but conversations can be held without audible vocalization.

### Sensory Recorder:

The user can record up to 180 minutes of sensory input. If they have a jack line into a transmitter or cyberware capable of transmitting data, they can share these recordings in real time or afterwards.

### Synthears:

This model of artificial ear is designed to be indistinguishable from normal ears, though they have all the properties of a normal pair of cyberears.

### Syntheyes:

These high-end cybereyes are designed to be indistinguishable from normal eyes under anything short of a medical examination. Any additional mods made to the eyes share this subtlety
