---
layout: default
title: Skin Cyberware
parent: Cyberware Systems
nav_order: 3
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-systems/skin-cyberware/
---

# Skin Cyberware

The systems below are some of the more common ones available. Each one is listed with their price, type, concealment level, and the permanent System Strain they add.

Cyber systems are divided by type, indicating what general part of the body they affect. This may be relevant if a Major Injury destroys all cyber of a particular type in a limb of torso.

| Cyberware              | Cost  | Type | Concealment Level | System Strain |
| :--------------------- | :---- | :--- | :---------------- | :------------ |
| Dermal Armor I         | $40K  | Skin | Medical           | 1             |
| Dermal Armor II        | $80K  | Skin | Touch             | 2             |
| Dermal Armor III       | $200K | Skin | Sight             | 3             |
| Poseidon Implants      | $30K  | Skin | Touch             | 1             |
| Sealed Systems Implant | $15K  | Skin | Medical           | 1             |
| Sharkskin Electrodes   | $20K  | Skin | Touch             | 1             |
| Skinmod                | $250  | Skin | Sight             | 0             |
| Skyborn Shielding      | $40K  | Skin | Sight             | 2             |

### Dermal Armor I:

Subtle dermal weave reinforcement grants a base ranged and melee AC of 16 and a +1 bonus to the user’s Trauma Target.

### Dermal Armor II:

Heavier subcutaneous plating acts as Dermal Armor I with a base ranged and melee AC of 18. In addition, the user can ignore the first instance of Shock in a round.

### Dermal Armor III:

Overt ceramic body plating and double-mesh joint reinforcement acts as Dermal Armor II, but with a base ranged and melee AC of 20 and +2 to the user’s Trauma Target.

### Poseidon Implants:

These implants allow the user to function normally while submerged for an indefinite period, drawing any necessary oxygen or drinking water from the surrounding salt or freshwater. Normal temperature extremes are managed without difficulty, and pressure can be handled down to depths of one kilometer. Visual augments and pressure gradient sensors allow the equivalent of normal sight up to 30 meters even in lightless water, and miniaturized support jets allow three-dimensional movement at twice the user’s normal Move rating.

### Sealed Systems Implant:

When triggered as an Instant action, implanted shields deploy and skinweaves energize to seal the user off from hostile external environments. For the next six hours, the user can operate as if wearing a vacuum suit, ignoring vacuum, contact poisons, non-immediately-lethal levels of radiation, toxic gases, low or high-pressure atmospheres, and environmental temperature hazards short of open flame. After deployment, the implant needs an equal time of recovery before it can be deployed again.

### Sharkskin Electrodes:

An implanted mesh of electrodes beneath the user’s skin allows them to deliver debilitating shocks while grappling a target, even if both are heavily clothed. At the end of each round of grappling, the user inflicts 2d6 non-lethal electrical damage on anyone they grapple or who is grappling them. The shielding built into the cyber automatically negates non-lethal electrical damage for the user and halves lethal shocks.

### Skinmod:

Various neon tattoos, skin texture and color changes, and other superficial physical mods can be performed with no real systemic burden beyond the usual need for regular maintenance.

### Skyborn Shielding:

A set of implants and skin treatments meant for those who spend extended periods in hard vacuum, this implant can be triggered as an Instant action. When deployed, the user gains the benefits of a Sealed Systems Implant and low-G microjets that allow 30m/round flight in microgravity conditions. Skyborn Shielding can operate for up to 72 hours before needing an hour of downtime to regenerate.
