---
layout: default
title: Nerve Cyberware
parent: Cyberware Systems
nav_order: 7
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-systems/nerve-cyberware/
---

# Nerve Cyberware

The systems below are some of the more common ones available. Each one is listed with their price, type, concealment level, and the permanent System Strain they add.

Cyber systems are divided by type, indicating what general part of the body they affect. This may be relevant if a Major Injury destroys all cyber of a particular type in a limb of torso.

| Cyberware                    | Cost  | Type  | Concealment Level | System Strain |
| :--------------------------- | :---- | :---- | :---------------- | :------------ |
| Coordination Augment I       | $50K  | Nerve | Medical           | 2             |
| Coordination Augment II      | $200K | Nerve | Touch             | 3             |
| Enhanced Reflexes I          | $100K | Nerve | Medical           | 2             |
| Enhanced Reflexes II         | $250K | Nerve | Medical           | 3             |
| Enhanced Reflexes III        | $750K | Nerve | Touch             | 4             |
| Reaction Booster I           | $50K  | Nerve | Medical           | 1             |
| Reaction Booster II          | $100K | Nerve | Medical           | 2             |
| Remote Control Unit          | $10K  | Nerve | Touch             | 2             |
| Skillplug Jack I             | $10K  | Head  | Touch             | 0.25          |
| Skillplug Jack II            | $25K  | Head  | Touch             | 0.5           |
| Skillplug Wiring             | $50K  | Nerve | Medical           | 1             |
| Trajectory Optimization Node | $50K  | Nerve | Medical           | 1             |
| Zombie Wires                 | $60K  | Nerve | Medical           | 2             |

### Coordination Augment I:

The user’s natural mind-body interface is tightened. The subject gains a Dexterity score of 14, or +2 if already 14 or higher.

### Coordination Augment II:

As Coordination Augment I, but the subject gains a Dexterity score of 18, and their base Move rate is increased by 10 meters.

### Enhanced Reflexes I:

Neural acceleration matrices can be deployed to briefly boost the user’s reaction speed. Once per scene, as an On Turn action, the user gets a bonus non-cyberspace Main Action.

### Enhanced Reflexes II:

Once per scene, as an On Turn action, the user gains a bonus non-cyberspace Main Action and Move action. By accepting one System Strain, this ability can be used as an Instant action, potentially interrupting incoming attacks if the user moves out of reach.

### Enhanced Reflexes III:

Twice per scene, as an On Turn action up to once per round, the user gains a bonus non-cyberspace Main Action and bonus Move Action. By accepting one System Strain, this ability can be used as an Instant action.

### Reaction Booster I:

These implants grant a +2 bonus to your Initiative, perhaps making you act before the rest of your team. Once per scene, as an Instant action, ignore Snap Attack hit penalties.

### Reaction Booster II:

As level one, but the user automatically wins initiative against targets that don’t also automatically win initiative; if both have this ability, initiative is rolled without modifications. The user can act normally during surprise rounds.

### Remote Control Unit:

A neurally-integrated control link allows for near-range control of drones or remote-rigged vehicles, as per the drone control rules.

### Skillplug Jack I:

A discreet head-mounted plug port allows use of an intellectual skillplug for a skill requiring minimal physical ability, up to level-1. Once slotted, a skillplug takes fifteen minutes to boot up and integrate properly.

### Skillplug Jack II:

This improved plug jack allows use of either an intellectual skillplug or one requiring physical expertise, up to level-1.

### Skillplug Wiring:

A neural wiring connection improves a skillplug jack’s limits to allow up to level-3 skill usage. One set of wires can support any number of jacks, but at least one is needed.

### Trajectory Optimization Node:

This cyber can calculate the optimal path for bypassing defenses and striking a target. Once per scene, as an Instant action, turn a missed hit roll into a success. Melee and unarmed attacks can be used as-is, but using this unit with a ranged attack requires an active Gunlink with the weapon.

### Zombie Wires:

Functioning only for a user with at least one Body cybersystem to serve as a motor substrate, “zombie wires” allow a user to keep functioning even at zero hit points. As an Instant action at zero hit points, the user can give their body a one-sentence command involving physical action. Their insensate flesh will blindly carry out that action for up to six rounds until it is complete or they take up to one quarter of their maximum hit points in further damage, which will kill them instantly. Time spent under Zombie Wires counts against a user’s stabilization time limit. Triggering this cyber adds 2 System Strain.
