---
layout: default
title: Medical Cyberware
parent: Cyberware Systems
nav_order: 6
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-systems/medical-cyberware/
---

# Medical Cyberware

The systems below are some of the more common ones available. Each one is listed with their price, type, concealment level, and the permanent System Strain they add.

Cyber systems are divided by type, indicating what general part of the body they affect. This may be relevant if a Major Injury destroys all cyber of a particular type in a limb of torso.

| Cyberware                     | Cost  | Type | Concealment Level | System Strain |
| :---------------------------- | :---- | :--- | :---------------- | :------------ |
| Prosthetic Cyber I            | $5K   | None | Sight             | 1             |
| Prosthetic Cyber II           | $15K  | None | Medical           | 0.25          |
| Regulated Anagathic Substrate | $200K | None | Medical           | 1             |

### Prosthetic Cyber I:

One of an array of minimally-adequate and very obvious organ replacements, eye prosthetics, neural patches, and other medical cyber. Prosthetic cyber grants no benefits over ordinary flesh, but can mitigate a Major Injury as explained on page 41. Patients who’ve lost an arm or leg don’t need this cyber; they need a serviceable new limb system such as a Cyberlimb or Synthlimb.

### Prosthetic Cyber II:

A more sophisticated and expensive version of basic prosthetic cyber, inobvious to anything but a medical scan and far less burdensome on the user’s system.

### Regulated Anagathic Substrate:

This whole-body network of chem regulators can prolong human lifespans by up to 1d4+2 decades. Maintenance on this cyber costs $50,000 a month, however, and interruptions have catastrophic consequences. Rumors persist of even more effective models existing among the megacorp ultra-elite.
