---
layout: default
title: Head Cyberware
parent: Cyberware Systems
nav_order: 2
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-systems/head-cyberware/
---

# Head Cyberware

The systems below are some of the more common ones available. Each one is listed with their price, type, concealment level, and the permanent System Strain they add.

Cyber systems are divided by type, indicating what general part of the body they affect. This may be relevant if a Major Injury destroys all cyber of a particular type in a limb of torso.

| Cyberware                  | Cost     | Type | Concealment Level | System Strain |
| :------------------------- | :------- | :--- | :---------------- | :------------ |
| Courier Memory             | $10K     | Head | Medical           | 0.25          |
| Cranial Jack               | As cyber | Head | Touch             | 0.25          |
| Discretion Insurance Unit  | $10K     | Head | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Eye Mod/Dazzler            | $15K     | Head | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Eye Mod/Flechette Launcher | $20K     | Head | Medical           | 0.5           |
| Funes Complex              | $40K     | Head | Medical           | 1             |
| Medusa Implant             | $20K     | Head | Obvious           | .5            |
| Neural Buffer              | As cyber | Head | Medical           | 0.25          |
| Skull Citadel              | $100K    | Head | Medical           | 2             |

### Courier Memory:

One unit of cranial Memory is installed with a subdermal upload pad. The person uploading the data can set a passphrase; while the implant user can erase the data, they can’t download it again without the passphrase, which is usually told only to the data’s intended recipient. Courier memory is exceptionally well-hidden and even medical scans take a -2 penalty to find it.

### Cranial Jack:

A discreetly-placed plug socket in the user’s head or neck allows interfacing with cyberdecks and gear equipped with a jack line. Cranial jacks can be modded with cyberdeck mods.

### Discretion Insurance Unit:

A small cranial bomb that can be keyed go off when it receives- or does not receive- certain codes or transmissions. Its unfortunate tendency to misfire its anti-removal protocols makes it an unpopular choice for use in anyone but the most disposable subjects. Removing this cyber is done at a +2 difficulty, and failure causes the death of the subject and a Physical save to avoid the death of the physician, with 5d6 damage taken on success.

### Eye Mod/Dazzler:

This mod can emit a dazzling strobe of intense light, dazing and disorienting those standing up to five meters in front of the user. The strobe is triggered up to once per round as an On Turn action and adds one System Strain. Victims without eye protection must make a Physical saving throw or take a -4 penalty to their AC and hit rolls for the next 1d6 rounds. A victim can be targeted by this dazzling only once per scene.

### Eye Mod/Flechette Launcher:

A holdout weapon designed for surprise short-ranged attacks, this eye has been loaded with a small explosive flechette. It has the statistics of a light pistol, has a range of 10 meters, and requires a Main Action to reload its single-round magazine. If used against a target in melee range who does not suspect its existence, a normal hit roll is made; on a miss, it does full normal damage anyway, and on a hit, the damage is doubled. It can be used for Execution Attacks.

### Funes Complex:

A synthetic eidetic memory is granted by this implant, with formalized bodies of knowledge easily cross-referenced and recollected. Once per day, as an Instant action, reroll any failed Int-based skill check. This memory can be difficult to control, however, and unwanted allusions can overwhelm the desired datum. If the user rolls a natural 2 on any Int skill check, it automatically fails and cannot be recovered by any rerolling ability.

### Medusa Implant:

These prehensile cranial tendrils take multiple forms, from thick armored cables to bundles of brightly-colored articulated polymer fibers not unlike normal hair. The tendrils are shoulder-length under most circumstances, but can extend to manipulate objects up to three meters distant with the agility of a human hand. The bundles are not very strong, however, and cannot lift more than ten kilograms. Like other extra limbs, they do not grant extra actions, but can hold and use items as any other limb could.

### Neural Buffer:

A system favored by hackers, a Neural Buffer rearranges the user’s brain topography, making it more difficult to harm the user with neural feedback. The user gains an additional 3 hit points per level that can only absorb cyberspace damage from Stun or Kill Verbs. These phantom hit points refresh completely each hour.

### Skull Citadel:

The user’s head is augmented with independent blood oxygenation pumps, armor plating, and trauma buffers designed to keep the brain intact even after the rest of the body is critically damaged. Barring dismemberment or the use of high-powered ammunition directly on the target’s head, the subject ignores head-affecting Major Injuries and can be stabilized even as long as ten minutes after their technical “death”. Each such delayed revivification permanently reduces a randomly-chosen attribute by 2 points, however. This ability damage cannot be undone.
