---
layout: default
title: Limb Cyberware
parent: Cyberware Systems
nav_order: 4
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-systems/limb-cyberware/
---

# Limb Cyberware

The systems below are some of the more common ones available. Each one is listed with their price, type, concealment level, and the permanent System Strain they add.

Cyber systems are divided by type, indicating what general part of the body they affect. This may be relevant if a Major Injury destroys all cyber of a particular type in a limb of torso.

| Cyberware                   | Cost  | Type | Concealment Level | System Strain |
| :-------------------------- | :---- | :--- | :---------------- | :------------ |
| Body Blades I               | $10K  | Limb | Medical           | 1             |
| Body Blades II              | $25K  | Limb | Sight             | 2             |
| Cyberlimb                   | $10K  | Limb | Touch             | 0.5           |
| Iron Hand Aegis             | $40K  | Limb | Touch             | 1             |
| Limbgun                     | $30K  | Limb | Touch             | 1             |
| Muscle Fiber Replacement I  | $50K  | Limb | Touch             | 1             |
| Muscle Fiber Replacement II | $200K | Limb | Sight             | 2             |
| Neolimb                     | $25K  | Limb | Sight             | 1             |
| Omnihand                    | $10K  | Limb | Touch             | 0.25          |
| Shock Fists                 | $10K  | Limb | Touch             | 0.5           |
| Stick Pads                  | $15K  | Limb | Touch             | 0.5           |
| Synthlimb                   | $25K  | Limb | Medical           | 0.5           |

### Body Blades I:

Assorted retractable blades and spikes are implanted in the user’s limbs. Their unarmed attacks do 1d8 damage, Shock of 2/15, Trauma Die 1d8/x3 and can be rolled with either Stab or Punch as the relevant combat skill. The Punch skill does not add damage to Body Blades attacks. When not in use, the blades are perceptible only to a medical scan.

### Body Blades II:

As level one, but the user’s body armament includes not only conventional blades, but assorted improvements such as monomolecular edges, cutting vibrations, or thermal augmentation. Their unarmed attacks do 2d6 damage with a Shock of 4/15, and a Trauma Die 1d10/x3. Anyone who sees or touches their arms can detect signs of the cyber, however.

### Cyberlimb:

A standard medical-grade cyberlimb, albeit one Encumbrance worth of non-weapon equipment or storage can be implanted in each limb and remain Readied without counting against the character’s Encumbrance. Add the equipment cost to the limb. The limb provides power to any electronic equipment implanted.

### Iron Hand Aegis:

Absorption plates and kinetic ablation units are implanted in the user’s arms and linked with a reactive ballistic calculator. Once per scene, as an Instant action, the user can deflect a successful ranged bullet, arrow, or thrown weapon attack, including burst or suppressive fire. Surprise attacks cannot be deflected this way, nor can melee attacks or explosives.

### Limbgun:

A ranged weapon is implanted into an arm, tail, or other significant limb, along with space for two magazines worth of ammunition. A full reload of this space can be accomplished as a Main Action. Limbguns can be used with Gunlink cyber, count as Readied at all times, and can be used even while both hands are occupied, but can be bound up in melee as normal guns can. Limbguns have an intrinsic +1 hit bonus, in addition to whatever bonus the implanted weapon may have. The maximum size of the gun is Encumbrance 1 for legs or neolimb tails, or Encumbrance 2 for arms. The buyer must supply the gun. Different guns can be swapped in as desired during the system’s monthly maintenance, but once implanted, a gun is useless for later conventional use.

### Muscle Fiber Replacement I:

Artificial muscle fibers are implanted as replacements for the user’s own flesh. The subject gains a Strength score of 14, or +2 if already 14 or higher.

### Muscle Fiber Replacement II:

The subject gains a Strength score of 18, and can smash through standard interior doors or equivalent barriers as a Move action.

### Neolimb:

The user gains an additional limb that normal humans lack. Usual choices involve an additional pair of arms or manipulatory mechano-tentacles, though functional prehensile tails are popular too. One installation of the cyber covers paired limbs or a single tail or body-mounted tendril up to 3 meters long. Neolimbs can support up to one Encumbrance point of non-weaponry built-in tech and add two items to the user’s Readied encumbrance allowance. Neolimbs can hold or grip objects, but cannot employ additional shields or grant extra actions.

### Omnihand:

A full array of small mechanical and electronic tools are folded into this cybernetic hand. The user is never without the tools for relevant skill checks, and once per day as an Instant action can gain +1 on any skill check involving the omnihand’s tool use. As an improvised weapon, the tools do damage as a knife.

### Shock Fists:

The user’s hands are implanted with subdermal electrical webbing. As an Instant action, accept one System Strain; for the rest of the scene, the user’s unarmed attacks do an additional 1d8 electrical damage on a successful hit. Unarmed attacks augmented with this mod are non-lethal if desired. This system does not stack with Body Blades.

### Stick Pads:

Macroscale van der Waals generators allow the user’s hands and feet to stick to vertical or overhanging surfaces, their full weight supported by one arm. They can climb such surfaces at their full movement rate with one free hand.

### Synthlimb:

A high-grade cyberlimb that’s indistinguishable from an organic body part by anything short of a medical examination. It functions as a Cyberlimb for purposes of implanted equipment.
