---
layout: default
title: Armor Accessories
parent: Armor
nav_order: 3
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/armor/armor-accessories/
---

# Armor Accessories

Some armor can be enhanced with additional protection such as absorption plates or joint reinforcement. These additions may increase the armor's bulk or obviousness, but they also improve the armor's AC or damage soak. A given accessory can only be applied once to any set of armor. Armor accessories cannot be modded with armor mods.

The three types of suit armor listed on the table above are built as cohesive systems, and cannot accept these accessories. A riot shield can still be used while wearing a suit, however.

### Riot Shield:

These bulky, transparent shields are most effective in fending off melee attackers. They must be Readied in one hand; users with multiple cyberarms can benefit from only one shield at a time. A shield negates the first melee Shock damage a bearer takes in a round.

### Absorption Plates:

Additional impact-absorbing buffer plates are added to the armor. Their bulk inflicts a -1 penalty to the user’s Sneak and Exert checks.

### Joint Reinforcement:

The weak points around limb joints are reinforced with extra layers of weave. The extra weave hinders movement, and applies a -1 penalty to the wearer’s Sneak and Exert checks.

## Obsolete Armor Tech

Bargains can be had for last year’s fashions, whether in armor or accessories. Such items cost only half as much as usual, but suffer a 1d2 penalty to both their ranged and Melee ACs, down to a minimum of AC 10. They also absorb 1d4 fewer Damage Soak, to a minimum of 0. These dice are only rolled after the obsolete armor has been purchased, so the buyer won't know exactly what they have until they try to fit it to an outfit.
