---
layout: default
title: Armor Mods
parent: Armor
nav_order: 4
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/armor/armor-mods/
---

# Armor Mods

The mods listed here can be applied to armor by a tech with the listed skill level at the given costs, as explained in section 2.8.2. Some require a certain number of units of special technology as well as ordinary parts. Unless specified otherwise, a given mod can be applied only once to an item.

| Mod             | Skill | Cost    | Special Tech |
| :-------------- | :---- | :------ | :----------- |
| Absorption Pads | Fix-2 | $2,000  | 0            |
| Active Response | Fix-3 | $20,000 | 2            |
| Biostabilizing  | Fix-1 | $2,500  | 0            |
| Customized      | Fix-1 | $1,000  | 0            |
| Discreet Design | Fix-2 | $5,000  | 1            |
| Flexible        | Fix-2 | $10,000 | 1            |
| Quickchange     | Fix-1 | $1,000  | 0            |
| Sealed          | Fix-1 | $2,500  | 0            |
| Tailored Rig    | Fix-1 | $2,000  | 0            |
| Trauma Dampers  | Fix-3 | $10,000 | 1            |
| Whisperlight    | Fix-2 | $10,000 | 1            |

### Absorption Pads:

Kinetic padding is added to the armor, granting it 5 more hit points of damage soak per fight.

### Active Response:

The armor has hyper-advanced reactive defenses that deflect and mitigate otherwise-critical injuries. Increase the wearer’s Trauma Target by 1. This stacks with any existing Trauma Target bonus the armor may already confer on the wearer.

### Biostabilizing:

An integral biostatus monitor triggers emergency trauma drugs when the wearer is Mortally Wounded. As an Instant action, they roll 2d6+2 versus difficulty 8 to stabilize. Only one such attempt can be made before the suit needs an hour to recalibrate.

### Customized:

The armor is tailored to a specific wearer, granting them a +1 bonus to both ranged and melee AC while it’s worn.

### Discreet Design:

The armor is carefully tailored and adjusted to be less imposing. Obvious armor is made Subtle by this mod, though it suffers a -2 penalty to its ranged and melee AC. The armor retains its original bulk, but its lines, drapes, and fabrics now appear to be particularly voluminous fashion couture rather than protective equipment.

### Flexible:

Bulky armor is carefully cut and tailored to allow a wearer the optimal range of movement. The Heavy quality of a suit of armor is removed.

### Quickchange:

The armor or clothing is designed with chroma-shifting fabrics, bi-facial texture panels, and removable accessories. As a Main Action, the wearer can shift its appearance to that of a different type of clothing or armor with the same level of obviousness. The details of this alternate appearance can be set with an hour of adjustment.

### Sealed:

The armor is equipped with a concealed filter hood and temporary pressure gaskets. As a Main Action, the user can seal the clothing against the external atmosphere, rendering them immune to gases and contact toxins. The seal and its integral air supply last 30 minutes, after which an hour of cleaning and purging will be needed to refresh the system.

### Tailored Rig:

Pouches, attachment points, holsters, and other rigging are designed for a particular wearer’s body contours. They gain 1 point of Readied Encumbrance and 2 points of Stowed Encumbrance added to their maximum. These items are clearly visible to others, however, and cannot be concealed.

### Trauma Dampers:

This mod can only be installed after Absorption Pads are in place. Once fully engineered, they add 5 additional hit points of damage soak per fight.

### Whisperlight:

The armor’s bulk is cut down and conventional materials are replaced with more advanced composites. The armor’s Encumbrance decreases by 1 point.
