---
layout: default
title: Cyberware Mods
parent: Cyberware
nav_order: 8
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberware-mods/
---

# Cyberware Mods

As with weapons, armor, drones, and many other varieties of gear, cyberware can also be modded by a sufficiently talented medic. Creating and installing these mods usually requires both Fix and Heal skill. No implant surgery is required as part of installation.

Unless specified otherwise, a given cyberware mod can only be installed once on any given system. The same mod may be installed on multiple different cyber systems, however, if a tech is willing to manage the Maintenance they will require.

Cyberware mod costs are expressed as a percentage cost of the system they’re installed on

| Mod                 | Fix/Heal | Cost | Special Components |
| :------------------ | :------- | :--- | :----------------- |
| Biocapacitors       | 1/2      | 30%  | 1                  |
| Durable System      | 1/1      | 20%  | 0                  |
| Firewalled          | 1/1      | 20%  | 0                  |
| Hardened Weave      | 2/1      | 30%  | 0                  |
| Low Maintenance     | 2/2      | 10%  | 1                  |
| Monoblade           | 2/1      | 20%  | 0                  |
| Profile Adjustment  | 1/2      | 20%  | 0                  |
| Quick Detach        | 2/2      | 30%  | 0                  |
| Tailored Interface  | 1/3      | 30%  | 1                  |
| Targeting Processor | 2/1      | 30%  | 0                  |

### Biocapacitors:

The first System Strain cost that the cyber would normally exact in a day is ignored. Thus, the first time an Enhanced Reflexes system is triggered, it would not add System Strain to the modded user.

### Durable System:

A limb or eye system is up-armored to resist injury. The next Major Injury directed at the modded limb is treated as if it were just a flesh wound roll of 12. It destroys this mod instead.

### Firewalled:

The modded system is much harder to hack, inflicting a -2 penalty on any related skill checks.

### Hardened Weave:

Skin cyber that grants an improved base armor class such as Dermal Armor has any AC it grants improved by +2. The additional armor makes the system Obvious, regardless of its original subtlety, and counts as one item of Readied encumbrance that cannot be dropped.

### Low Maintenance:

The modded system no longer requires any significant maintenance. This mod does not work on systems with special maintenance costs or consequences, such as a Full Body Conversion or a Regulated Anagathic Substrate.

### Monoblade:

A bladed cyber system has advanced monomolecular cutting elements installed. The edge is difficult to maintain but inflicts horrific injuries when it strikes cleanly. The weapon’s Trauma Die gets a +1 bonus, but its base damage die and Shock is decreased by -2.

### Profile Adjustment:

The system’s obviousness is lowered by one step, from Sight to Touch, or Touch to Medical. It has no benefit for a system that is already at a Medical grade of concealment.

### Quick Detach:

Usable only on limb cyber, eyes, or other parts that could conceivably be removed, this mod allows the user to attach or detach the system with five minutes of work, and replace it with any other Quick Detach-modded system that would fit in the same place.

### Tailored Interface:

A demanding cyber system is adjusted to specifically match the biochemistry of the user rather than using a factory-set best approximation. This mod only functions on cyber that inflicts 2+ points of permanent System Strain, but lowers the strain cost by 1 point.

### Targeting Processor:

This mod must be installed in Gunlink, or in a weapon system such as Body Blades or Eye Mod/Flechette. Improved targeting calculations grant a +1 bonus to hit with the cyber-weapon or with guns aimed with the Gunlink system. An attack can only ever benefit from one instance of this mod.
