---
layout: default
title: Cyberdoc Tools
parent: Cyberware
nav_order: 3
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberware/cyberdoc-tools/
---

# Cyberdoc Tools

The following gear is often useful in installing cyberware.

| Tool                             | Encumbrance | Cost    |
| :------------------------------- | :---------- | :------ |
| Cyberdoc Kit                     | 2           | $500    |
| Maintenance Supplies             | 1           | Varies  |
| Manufacturer’s Installation Kit  | 1           | $10,000 |
| Surgical Theater Tools / Level 1 | 10          | $10,000 |
| Surgical Theater Tools / Level 2 | N/A         | $500K   |
| Surgical Theater Tools / Level 3 | N/A         | $5M     |

### Cyberdoc Kit:

A portable kit with all the tools needed for maintaining cyberware, albeit the maintenance supplies cost extra. In a pinch, this kit can be used to implant or remove cyberware, though few would want to risk using such rudimentary tools. The kit can serve as a medkit at need.

### Maintenance Supplies:

A collection of consumable parts, lubricants, medications, faked subscription keys, and pirated firmware updates. Any reasonable dollar value of supplies can be carried as 1 point of Encumbrance.

### Manufacturer’s Installation Kit:

These tools and technical resources are usually restricted to licensed installation vendors of a given cyberware company. They grant a +1 skill check bonus when installing or removing cyberware made by that manufacturer. They are closely tracked, and it can be difficult to find a corp doc willing to sell them under the table.

### Surgical Theater/Level 1:

A basic collection of medical tools, pharmaceuticals, scanners, technical manuals, and software subscriptions. Most ordinary street docs command this level of hardware. Laying it out for use requires at least a semi-clean room’s worth of working space.

### Surgical Theater/Level 2:

A more sophisticated, extensive, and advanced operating theater than the level 1 version. High-grade street docs and standard corporate employee clinics would use this tech, which requires the same amount of space as the level 1 array.

### Surgical Theater/Level 3:

Some of the most advanced medical tech commonly available on the market, this grade of surgical assistance is usually found only in corporate clinics for high-level employees or in the private clinics of top-end street docs. It requires a half-dozen rooms to support all its functionality.
