---
layout: default
title: Hacking Mechanics
parent: Hacking
nav_order: 2
permalink: /hacking/hacking-mechanics/
---

# Hacking Mechanics

The following procedures are used for hacking various types of targets and engaging in cyberspace combat.

## Hacking a Device or Server

1. Check your deck’s CPU rating. Do you have a free point of CPU? If not, your deck doesn’t have the horsepower to run another program right now.
2. As a Move action, take the Jack In action to connect to the device if you aren’t already connected. It’s best to use the self-adhering field manipulation cable of your cyberdeck. Wireless connections are possible within 30 meters of unobstructed line-of-sight, but apply -2 to all cyberspace skill checks while connected that way. If you’re connecting to your deck with a VR crown instead of a cranial jack, take an additional -1 penalty.
3. As a Main action, run your program. Combine a Verb and a Subject stored in your deck’s Memory, pay any Access the Verb requires, and roll Int/Program versus the target’s Security difficulty, modified by any difficulty modifiers the Verb applies. On a success, the program has its effect. On a failure, you lose any Access you spent for no benefit, the program fails to run, and you potentially alarm the network. Every two failed skill checks against network Security count as one triggering of the Alert the Network action.
4. Is the program still running? If your program self-terminates after completion, it gives back its CPU slot. If you need to keep it running to maintain its effects or control, it keeps the CPU slot until you terminate it as an Instant action, your connection is cut, or you get knocked unconscious.

## Hacking Cyberware or Drones

1. Check your deck’s CPU rating. Do you have a free point of CPU? If not, your deck doesn’t have the horsepower to run another program right now.
2. Can you reach them? While in theory you can stick your deck’s field cable on a target, in practice you’re usually going to be attacking wirelessly, with a 30 meter line-of-sight range and a -2 penalty on all cyberspace skill checks. You don’t have to connect to them beforehand with the Jack In action, however; you can launch your programs directly against the target. If you’re connecting to your deck with a VR crown instead of a cranial jack, take an additional -1 penalty to all cyberspace skill checks.
3. Do you know what cyberware you’re targeting? Cyber with a Sight obviousness rating can be recognized on sight. Otherwise, you need to either know of a cyber system’s existence beforehand, run the Frisk Cyber program, or launch your hack blindly and hope it hits a valid target.
4. As a Main Action, run your program, combining the desired Verb and applicable Subject from your deck’s Memory and spending the Access the Verb requires. If the target has no cyber, your effort is wasted. If the Subject you’re using doesn’t match any of their cyber, your effort is wasted. If the Subject you’re using matches multiple systems, like the generic Cyber Subject, and you didn’t specify which one beforehand, the GM picks a valid target randomly and tells you what you hit. Most Verbs require a skill check to successfully affect the cyber. The base difficulty for your Int/Program skill check is equal to 7 plus one-third of the target’s or the drone operator’s HD or level, rounded up. Drones without a connected operator are difficulty 8. Remember that you’re probably attacking wirelessly for a -2 penalty on your skill check, plus any roll bonus or penalty the Verb you’re using may apply.
5. Is the program still running? If your program self-terminates after completion, it gives back its CPU slot. If you need to keep it running to maintain its effects or control, it keeps the CPU slot until you terminate it as an Instant action, your target moves out of range, or you get knocked unconscious. Just moving behind cover is not enough to cut the connection; they need to get more than 30 meters away from you.

## Cyberspace Combat

1. Be connected. If you lose your connection, you drop out of cyberspace and can’t interact with it.
2. Be in the same network node. All avatars or Demons involved in the fight have to be in the same network device.
3. Both sides roll initiative. If you’re already in meatspace combat, keep your original initiative.
4. Both sides take actions normally. Main or Move actions spent in cyberspace are consumed in meatspace as well; you don’t get two separate sets of actions. Those with the Hacker Edge, however, get a free Main Action each round to spend in cyberspace. Demons get the same Main and Move actions that any others do.
5. Attacks are usually made with the Stun Verb and the Avatar Subject, though Kill Avatar is used by some particularly vicious defenders. These Verbs inflict normal hit point damage on the target; at zero hit points, they fall unconscious if human or are fragged for an hour if a Demon program, though fragged demons still count for a node’s maximum Demon capacity. Kill Avatar can inflict lethal damage and Traumatic Hits; the victim’s Trauma Target is not modified by armor, but is by cyber or other sources.
6. Combat continues until one side flees, is disconnected, or otherwise ceases hostilities. Demons will follow their programming, while human watchdogs are more flexible. Both will likely put a high priority on the Alert the Network action, which must be performed twice to activate the network’s intruder alert.

## Moving in Cyberspace

1. Be connected. Your avatar initially manifests in the network node corresponding to the device you connected to.
2. Look for node connections. Most connections to another node are obvious. Some may be hidden, however, and require a Main Action and a Wis/Program skill check to detect them at the security’s difficulty level.
3. Is there a barrier on the connection? If so, you need to successfully run the Unlock Barrier program on it to pop it open. Once unlocked, it remains so until the Lock Barrier program is run.
4. If there is no barrier or it has been unlocked, take a Move action to move to the connecting node. Hostile Demons or watchdogs who are present get to run a free program against you as you flee.

## Common Cyberspace Security Levels

The levels below represent the usual difficulties for hacking skill checks in a given network. Individual networks may vary based on their importance and the competence of their guardians, however.

| Common Security Levels           | Difficulty |
| :------------------------------- | :--------- |
| Private home network             | 7          |
| Small business or minor gang     | 8          |
| Minor government office          | 8          |
| Corp branch office or major gang | 9          |
| Important government facility    | 9          |
| Corp high-security network       | 10         |
| Corp or government black site    | 12         |

| Situation                                | Difficulty Mod |
| :--------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Network has been alerted                 | +1             |
| The device is very important             | +1             |
| Their tech or skill is poor or makeshift | –1 to –2       |
| Their tech or skill is unusually good    | +1 to +2       |
| Hacker has inside security info          | –1 to –3       |
