---
layout: default
title: Programs
parent: Hacking
nav_order: 4
permalink: /hacking/programs/
---

# Programs

A program is made up of two parts: a Verb and a Subject. A hacker loads a selection of each into the memory of their cyberdeck, and as they need them, they pair any two to create the effects they need. While programs are flexible, they have some limitations.

Programs can only be run from cyberspace. If a hacker wants to blind a camera, they’ve got to jack into it first before they can run the Blind Verb with the Camera Subject. Programs with the Cyber, Drone or Transmission Subjects are an exception to this, and can be run directly to attack enemy cyberware or interact with local radio transmissions.

Most Verbs cost a point of Access to run. Some very subtle Verbs may function without this cost.

Most programs require a skill check against the Subject’s security difficulty. The more sophisticated and well-hardened the target, the harder it is to hack it, with difficulties given on the table in section 4.2.5. On a failure, the action and Access is wasted. Some Verbs are harder or easier to execute than others, and may apply a modifier to this skill check roll.

Programs take up one CPU slot while running. A cyberdeck with a CPU rating of 4, for example, can run no more than 4 programs at a time. Some Verbs auto-terminate after performing their task, while others are ongoing, and continue to have their effect as long as the program runs.

Programs terminate once the hacker jacks out or is knocked out. Once the cable gets pulled or the hacker goes unconscious, any program that the hacker was running automatically ends. If they’re connecting wirelessly to the target, as with programs affecting cyber or radio transmissions, their programs only terminate on unconsciousness, the Terminate Program Instant action, or if the target goes out of range.

Each Verb or Subject takes up one point of deck Memory, and can be combined arbitrarily to make up a program. Programs can be used as often as the user wishes, so long as they have the CPU and Access needed to run them; the same Blind and Camera elements can be used to blind three different cameras at the same time so long as the deck has at least a CPU of 3 and the hacker takes three separate actions to run the program at different targets. Swapping utility choices requires an hour of recompiling.
