---
layout: default
title: Mission Gear
parent: Gear, Vehicles, and Cyberware
nav_order: 1
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/mission-gear/
---

# Mission Gear

The following items are often useful to operatives. Their prices can be used to extrapolate other costs for other common goods. The prices given assume that the gear is legally available where the PCs are.

Some gear is meant to be worn. Worn equipment that is being used, such as IR goggles or a gas mask, must be Readied to be employed.

| Gear                          | Cost | Encumbrance |
| :---------------------------- | :--- | :---------- |
| Active hearing protection     | $250 | 1           |
| Ammunition, empty magazine    | $10  | 1           |
| Ammunition, per round         | $1   | \*          |
| Backpack or gear harness      | $25  | 1~          |
| Binoculars                    | $100 | 1           |
| Bus pass, monthly             | $50  | \*          |
| Climbing kit                  | $150 | 2           |
| Clothing, fashionable         | $500 | 1~          |
| Clothing, haute couture       | $10K | 1~          |
| Clothing, ordinary            | $25  | 1~          |
| Gas mask                      | $1K  | 1           |
| Goggles, Anti-Flash           | $100 | 1           |
| Goggles, IR                   | $1K  | 1           |
| Kit, Basic Tools              | $100 | 2           |
| Kit, Cyberdoc                 | $500 | 2           |
| Kit, Medkit                   | $100 | 1           |
| Kit, Survival                 | $100 | 2           |
| Lockpicks                     | $100 | 1           |
| Military ration, per day      | $20  | 1           |
| Portable video camera         | $300 | 1           |
| Radio, handheld               | $50  | 1           |
| Radio, ultralight tab         | $500 | 0           |
| Smartphone service plan/month | $10  | -           |
| Smartphone, basic             | $50  | -           |
| Smartphone, fashionable       | $2K  | -           |
| VR crown, cheap               | $50  | 1           |
| Wearable light                | $25  | 1~          |

\~: These items have no Encumbrance while worn.
\*: No Encumbrance for any reasonable amount

### Active Hearing Protection:

This headset protects the wearer from disorientation due to loud noises. It passes along conversational-level speech without difficulty.

### Ammunition:

Individual rounds are loaded into empty magazines that are specific to individual firearms.

### Backpack:

Backpacks, gear harnesses, and other such kit may add some bulk to an operator’s burden, but without them the GM is perfectly justified in asking how a PC is fitting their entire loadout in their jacket pockets.

### Binoculars:

Most modern binocs have low-light functionality and magnification sufficient to bring targets as much as a kilometer distant into view.

### Bus pass, monthly:

A critical mobility resource for the first mission of many operators.

### Climbing kit:

Ultralight cord, a grapnel, some grip handholds, and a fast-acting, ultra-strong wall adhesive make up this kit.

### Clothing:

Clothing has no Encumbrance when worn, but it’s sometimes prudent to have a spare outfit in your pack.

### Gas mask:

Bulky and uncomfortable, but once Readied it leaves the user immune to most inhaled gases, including tear gas grenades.

### Goggles:

Basic anti-flash goggles defuse the visual threat of flashbangs and similar dazzlers. IR goggles include anti-flash tech, but also give the user effective IR vision out to 50 meters in most environments.

### Kit:

These bundles of gear are carefully packed for minimal weight. Toolkits give a tech the gear they need for basic repairs and construction, while medical kits provide first aid implements. Cyberdoc kits contain everything medical kits do, as well as gear for cyber maintenance or even emergency implantation. Survival kits are for badlands operations, with water filtration, firemaking tools, and other such gear for extended wilderness stays.

### Lockpicks:

Both manual lockpicks and a selection of useful electronic shims sufficient to threaten most modern locks.

### Military rations:

This food brick is unappetizing but contains the nutrition necessary for a day of heavy activity. Water can be included for an extra point of Encumbrance per day.

### Portable video camera:

Palm-sized and discreet, this camera can record up to twelve hours of high-def video before its internal memory is filled.

### Radio:

Both conventional handheld radios and ultra-convenient headset or collar-tab radios can be had. Ranges are one kilometer in the city and six in an open, flat area.

### Smartphone:

Corp-approved media devices are cheap and ubiquitous, but few operators trust them with sensitive information.

### VR Crown:

A cheap headset for a VR addict or a hacker too poor for a cranial jack.

### Wearable Light:

These clip-on lights can illuminate up to 30 meters ahead of the wearer.
