---
layout: default
title: Cyberdecks
parent: Gear, Vehicles, and Cyberware
nav_order: 7
permalink: /gear-vehicles-cyberware/cyberdecks/
---

# Cyberdecks

These laptop-sized computers range from scrap-built makeshifts to cutting edge hardware stolen from the very best corps. All of them have certain important qualities.

Bonus Access reflects the onboard intrusion hardware integral to the deck. It augments the user’s base Access score, which is equal to their Intelligence modifier plus their Program skill plus this bonus Access.

Memory is the number of memory units standard to the deck. Most programs and paydata files take up one unit of memory. Erasing a program from memory is an Instant action, but loading it off a program chip takes fifteen minutes to complete all its linkages.

Shielding is the amount of buffer circuitry and hardwired signal damping the deck can use to lessen incoming damage to the user. Hit point losses inflicted by the Stun or Kill program Verbs deplete the deck’s Shielding before affecting the user. Shielding regenerates after fifteen minutes of calm.

CPU indicates the number of programs the deck can run at once. Some programs are Immediate, and self-terminate right after executing, while others are Ongoing, and take up a CPU slot until terminated as an Instant action.

| Cyberdeck         | Cost     | Bonus Access | Memory | Shielding | CPU | Encumbrance |
| :---------------- | :------- | :----------- | :----- | :-------- | :-- | :---------- |
| Cranial Jack Only | As cyber | 0            | 0      | 0         | 1   | N/A         |
| Scrap Deck        | $500     | 1            | 8      | 5         | 2   | 1           |
| Tanto             | $5,000   | 1            | 10     | 10        | 3   | 1           |
| Icepick           | $15,000  | 2            | 10     | 10        | 3   | 1           |
| Synapse           | $30,000  | 2            | 11     | 5         | 4   | 1           |
| Beowulf           | $60,000  | 2            | 13     | 10        | 4   | 1           |
| Tizona            | $100,000 | 3            | 11     | 10        | 5   | 1           |
| Taifu             | $250,000 | 3            | 13     | 15        | 5   | 1           |

## Cyberdeck Mods

Cyberdeck mods use the same modding rules as given in section 2.8.2, with each deck mod counting against the tech’s Maintenance score.

Prices are given as percentages of the original deck’s unmodified cost; the more sophisticated the deck, the more expensive it is to improve it. Unless specified otherwise, a deck mod can be applied only once to a given deck.

### Bespoke Code Optimization (Fix-1):

Pick one Verb and one Subject when installing this mod; those utilities occupy no Memory and one instance of that Verb-Subject program doesn’t count against its CPU burden. Costs 20% of the base deck cost.

### Buffer Circuits (Fix-1):

Add 5 points to the deck’s Shielding rating. Costs 20% of the base deck cost.

### CPU Overclocking (Fix-2):

Add one to the deck’s CPU rating. Costs 30% of the base deck cost.

### Memory Expansion (Fix-1):

Add four units of Memory to the deck. Costs 20% of the base deck cost.

### Polymorphic Intrusion Algorithms (Fix-1):

Add one to the unit’s Bonus Access but subtract one from its CPU rating. Costs 10% of the base deck cost.

### Skeletal Case (Fix-1):

The deck’s Encumbrance value is decreased by 1, but its Memory suffers a -2 penalty. Costs 10% of the base deck cost.

### Thermal Exhaust Case (Fix-2):

The deck’s Encumbrance value is increased by 1, but its CPU value increases by 1 as well. Costs 30% of the base deck cost.
